## [Abstract](https://github.com/lexmerca/TTIPv2_ToC)

In 2016, negotiations toward a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) agreement between the European Union (EU) and the United States (US) ended without conclusion. Cross-border data flows have since become a greater driver of international commercial activity, the digitalization of trade has accelerated, and the global ‘digital economy’ continues to expand. To re-engage and coordinate responses, the EU-US Trade and Technology Council (TTC) was established in 2021. The TTC seeks to grow bilateral relations by mitigating technical barriers between the jurisdiction(s), strengthening transatlantic supply chains, fostering cooperation on certain data issues, setting standards, promoting digital tools for small business inclusion, and mutually reforming the rules-based multilateral trading system. Concurrently, Computational Law (CompLaw) approaches are emerging that allow for the expression and publication of digital versions of rules online *as* algorithms to improve accessibility for humans and support operationalization via machines. As instruments begin to refer to governance *for*, *of*, and *by* information and communications technology (ICT), this working paper complements the TTC to introduce public and private branches of law and construct a five-point legal-technical basis for a TTIP 'version 2.0' with computational rules (and data sources) in parallel to its natural language, other texts, and associated systems. First, the nature of the EU-US relationship is described in the age of Computational Law and the Internet. Second, the analysis explores the multilateral interface and proposals under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Joint Initiative on E-commerce. Third, existing and envisaged sources of EU and US trade, business, technology, and privacy law are compared. Fourth, the investigation frames institutional sources of transnational commercial law, including the principles, conventions, and model laws of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT). Fifth, technical requirements to seize the CompLaw opportunity for transatlantic trade are articulated. The paper contributes to the advancement of legal informatics at the nexus of EU-US trade and technology policy regimes.


**Keywords:** Administrative Law; Algorithmic Law; Business Law; Computational Law; Computable Contracts; Constitutional Law; Customs; Data Governance; Digital Trade; Digitalization; E-commerce; European Union; International Economic Law; Internet; Open Source; Regulatory Technology; Tax; Technology Law; Trade Facilitation; Trade in Services; Trade Policy; Transnational Commercial Law; United States


**JEL Codes:** F13; F15; F53; H25; K12; K22; K23; K24; K33; K34; L17; L25; L51; L88; M16; M21; M48; N42; N44 N74; O19; O24; O51; O52; O57; P16; P45; P51; Q17; R12

