# [About the Author](https://github.com/lexmerca/TTIPv2_ToC)

Craig Atkinson is the Founder / Director of Lexmerca International Trade, a Consultant with the United Nations International Trade Centre, and a Fellow with the Stanford-Vienna Transatlantic Technology Law Forum. Before joining the UN in 2012, Craig began his career in commercial diplomacy with two national government agencies: the Australian Trade Commission and the Canadian Trade Commissioner Service. He has also served as a consultant for the Commonwealth Secretariat and in the private sector.

Emphasizing international economic law, Craig holds multidisciplinary undergraduate and graduate degrees and has studied in Canada (Bishop’s University; University of Saskatchewan), the Netherlands (Amsterdam School of International Business), and the United Kingdom (London School of Economics). In addition, he has held fellowships in both Europe and North America. Most recently, from 2017 to 2019, Craig was a Visiting Research Fellow with the World Trade Institute of the University of Bern in Switzerland. 

Craig’s applied research focuses on the legal-technical bases for computational forms of commercial rules that extend accessibility for humans and operationalization by machines. In this context, he has participated in the World Economic Forum’s Inclusive Growth Framework, the World Trade Organization’s Enhanced Integrated Framework, and Xalgorithms Foundation’s Xalgo4Trade Working Group. Craig has further advised several international bodies on policy modernization issues and has contributed to the publications of ITC and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
